Topping the ranking is Rinus Michels, the Dutch coach who
started managing Ajax in 1965, a team that was close to
relegation, and turned it into one of the best in the world,
even leading it to become European Champion in 1971. He also
coached FC Barcelona where he won the Laliga, the Copa del
Rey and the Fairs Champions Cup match. He coached the
Netherlands national team, where he was runner-up in the
1974 FIFA World Cup and champion of the 1988 European
Championship.

A summary of the career of Rinus Michels, the best coach of
all time according to France Football.

While coach of Ajax he began to implement the invention for
which he went down in history: total soccer. Michels got the
idea from Jack Reynolds, an Englishman who was his coach
while he was an Ajax player.

Just in 1974 he simultaneously managed the Netherlands
national team. He arrived with the team qualified for the
World Cup that year.  It was with the national team,
nicknamed the Clockwork Orange, that Michels went down in
history. He managed 10 matches, 9 of them undefeated, losing
only the final against Germany. Despite losing the final,
Michels ' team enchanted the world with a style of play
never seen before. Thus marking a before and after in world
soccer.

In 1992 he coached the Netherlands at the European
Championship, which was to be his last coaching experience.
He continued to work as a member of the UEFA Technical
Committee, but Rinus Michels died at the age of 77 on March
3, 2005 in Aalst, Belgium, after suffering from heart
problems. Johan Cruyff would say at the time that both as a
player and as a coach, no one taught me as much as he did. I
always admired his leadership.

Rinus Michels has been called the father of modern soccer,
as many tactics we see today in our soccer, such as tiki-
taka or the false 9, are tactics or style of play inherited
from Michels ' total soccer.

His attacking soccer led him to the bench of FC Barcelona in
1971, thus beginning the legendary relationship between
soccer in the Netherlands and the Cule team. Two years
later, Johan Cruyff joined the team. In Spain he won a
league title in 1974.



The magazine based its ranking on three criteria:
Achievements, legacy, length of career and impact.

This idea of total soccer meant that every player could play
in any position. Thus, no defender, midfielder or striker
remained in his starting position during the match. The
center forward (Johan Cruyff) could drop into midfield or
play as a winger. The midfielders played as defenders when
the opponent had the ball, and joined the attack when their
team attacked. The full-backs were constantly moving
forward, playing as a winger. All this combined with a
pressure after loss that suffocated the opponent.

After the World Cup, Rinus Michels began to make short-lived
moves to the bench: he returned to Ajax for one season, then
returned to Barcelona in 1976 and won a Copa del Rey in
1978.  In 1984 he returned to the Dutch national team, where
four years later he won the only title in the team 's
history: the 1988 European Championship.

The famous magazine, France Football, which is in charge of
awarding the Ballon d 'Or, published a controversial ranking
of the 50 best coaches who have passed in the history of
soccer.